# Nebu

🚨 WORK IN PROGRESS 🚨

Nebu (from the name of the Ancient Egyptian symbol for gold) is a semi-serious proof-of-stake cryptocurrency written in Python.

# Nebu Whitepaper (if you could really call it that)

I intend for Nebu to be a highly simple open-source cryptocurrency that's mainly used for fun, but can also feasibly be used for real-world financial transactions (similar to Dogecoin). I'm coding it in proof-of-stake for 3 reasons:

  -1. PoS is a lot less computationally intensive than PoW, meaning it consumes a lot less electricity and is better for the environment. I do not want a mostly-for-fun cryptocoin to be as environmentally damaging as fully serious cryptos like Bitcoin are.
  
  -2. I think PoS is more fair than PoW since it prioritizes those who have staked more rather than those who have more computational power, which allows for significant democratization. Some people will say that PoS creates a risk of centralization, but for a sufficiently developed cryptocurrency it would take a *lot* of money to stake enough to have a more-than-trivial chance of consistently winning the validating lottery. And besides, the worst nightmare for PoS critics has already come true with centralized crypto exchanges becoming the norm over the years.
  
  -3. I like the aesthetics of proof-of-stake over proof-of-work (e.g. I think "minting" sounds nicer than "mining"). That probably makes me sound like a weird person, but aren't we all? Anyway...

I am also inspired to make Nebu because of the sheer awe I am in at seeing the decadence of the modern-day crypto community. The old guard of genuine enthusiasts, crypto-anarchists and... oh, I don't know, people who actually give a damn has drowned under a deluge of giganerds in ivory towers, confidence men and wannabe gazillionaires long ago. Despite how unusual this sounds, I genuinely feel severe ennui whenever I am reminded of subcultural buboes like Cryptoland or Bored Ape Yacht Club, or when I see crypto snobs make up terms of art like "premine" or "eigentrust" and expect me to know what any of those mean. The thing that ultimately led me to start working on Nebu was when I read the Wikipedia entry for Bitcoin. They had the cajones to describe Bitcoin as "a protocol which implements a highly available, public, permanent and decentralized ledger" that "can be thought of as a digital currency" because it "has the characteristics of money". Yeah, sure. A protocol. It's not like it has *coin* in the name, or that it's white paper described it as an electronic *cash* system in the TITLE. And I share no less distaste for those unabashed slimeballs that exploit peoples' FOMO to pump and dump their worthless "coins". If I had my way with them, they'd all be serving time. On a side note, I'm also not particularly fond of those who see crypto as a get-rich-quick opportunity. But TBH they're not my main concern, since their viewpoint has at least *some* iota of truth to it (I mean, have you *seen* how much doubloons mining farms make?). I'm more concerned with the people who *sell* crypto as a get-rich-quick opportunity. If cryptocurrency ever achieves its original goal of being a free currency built for everyone and not the plaything of elitists and financial spectators, it's going to be in the form of something simple, yet practical. It would be like the PayPal of cryptocurrencies. It must embody *realpolitik*. Worrying about how things like how "consensus algorithms" work shouldn't be a rite of passage to get involved in a coin. Nebu is my somewhat crude attempt at making that happen, and I say crude because I am practically talentless when it comes to programming. I'll be more than happy if someone more competent comes along to make a better cryptocurrency that shares my same attitude.
